# Aquatic connectivity treatments increase fish and macroinvertebrate use of Typha invaded Great Lakes coastal wetlands: Data

---

We conducted a large-scale study investigating the effects of invasive cattail (Typha spp.) mechanical treatments (harvest, channel, control) on biodiversity in four Great Lakes coastal wetlands. The dataset contains water quality, plant, fish, macroinvertebrate, and amphibian taxonomic data from the two years following treatment implementation. We found that harvest and channel treatments decreased Typha dominance, and channel treatments were more effective; harvest treatments increased total biodiversity; and channel treatments shifted the community composition toward aquatic species. 

## Description of the Data and file structure
The data are structured in five spreadsheets (Total, Plants, Fish, Invertebrates, and Amphibians) as individual tabs in the excel file. The Total spreadsheet contains all environmental data and all taxonomic data from the full study. The individual taxonomic group spreadsheets (e.g., Plants) contains the taxonomic data of that group and associated environmental data. Columns within all spreadsheets begin with date (year) site, treatment, subplot identifiers. Environmental data include: organic (depth of organic sediment(cm)), unveg (percent of 1x1 m subplot that was unvegetated), veg (percent of 1x1 m subplot that was vegetated), detritusAW (percent cover of detritus above the water), detritusBW (percent cover of detritus below the water), water_depth (measured water depth (cm)), pH (measured in situ), cond (conductivity, measured in situ), temp (water temperature measured in situ), DO (dissolved oxygen, measured in situ). Diversity metrics follow environmental data and include: alltaxa_H (Shannon diversity of all taxa), alltaxa_simp(Simpson diversity of all taxa), alltaxa_rich(taxa richness of all taxa), H and richness for each specific taxonomic group (e.g., H_plant = plant Shannon diversity). Finally, specific taxonomic data are included with six letter shorthand representing the first three letters of the genus and first three letters of the species. For instance, typang represents Typha angustifolia. In the case of invertebrates and fish, taxa are also included as family groupings, and are indicated with a prefix of “F_” as in, “F_cyprinidae” representing all individual fish collected from the family Cyprinidae. Additionally, the relative dominance by functional groups are included for plants (e.g. “grassRD” represents the proportion of total plants represented by grasses), and the total count by functional feeding groups are included for invertebrates (e.g. “Collectors”). Missing data are represented by NA. 

## Sharing/access Information

NA